(upbeat music)
- You're welcome to episode 19,
66 Junction Blockhead.
- Bada, tah.
- Today, we got a special guest, Joe Rogan.
(laughing)
- Yeah, we just kick him out now.
- Think about being an Alfred male is,
you gotta eat so much meat that you fucking out,
fight people.
(laughing)
Jesus Christ.
You put your hands to be the consistency of pork chop.
(laughing)
- Plus, aren't those episodes like two and three hours long?
- They're longer than that, too.
They're really long.
- I'll catch the highlights when it's like a guest
that I give a fuck about.
- Yeah.
- For the most part, I'm just like,
there's no way I wanna listen to this guy babble
for four hours.
(laughing)
- The only one I liked was the Paul Stamets one,
the mushroom guy like my collegeist.
- Mm.
- I know, that was super interesting
'cause of his content by every other one.
- Bada.
- Yeah.
- I can't pay attention.
There was, what the hell?
- Why can't, Elon Musk?
- Yeah, I like that one.
And I like the one with the most recent one
with Maynard from Tool.
- Oh, I didn't see that.
- He was just talking about like disconnecting
from fucking society and living in the desert
in Arizona and growing wine.
That's the only thing that keeps them sane.
It was pretty, it was interesting.
I liked it, you know what I mean?
- Might check that out.
- Sure, they talked about Jiu Jitsu a lot.
- They did.
- Talking about fighting.
- I didn't know that he was, he trains in that stuff.
Apparently he has for like 30 years.
At some point he had a replaced hip.
So now he has to be like extra careful when he does it
but like he has a fucking bionic hip.
- Damn.
- Yeah.
- That's what I said is like it sounds painful.
- Because there are videos of him taking down
like bands on stage.
- Yeah.
- And he's like, "Oop, expertly."
He gets rid of them.
- Just puts them on their face.
- So, Greg has a list.
- It's not really a list, just a few points of shit
that I had to do. - There's a lot of words
on that screen.
- I tend to babble to myself a lot.
Most of this is off topic shit.
But if you'll allow me.
- By all means.
- I can venture off topic for a moment.
- Yes.
- I wanted to bring up the Chernobyl soundtrack.
- Oh, yes.
- Which was an amazing series.
- Both of you watch it.
- I've not seen it.
- Okay.
- I don't wanna spoil it.
- Full recommend?
- No.
- Two thumbs up.
- Okay.
- I love that from start to finish.
It's hard to say that you love something like that
when it's so fucking dreary and based off of reality,
but it was incredibly well done from every point.
You know what I mean?
And the reason why I was gonna bring it up here
was the sound.
- Yeah, 'cause I didn't watch it,
but you explained the soundtrack and how it was made.
So I went and looked that up just on its own.
And it's incredible.
- Yeah.
It's by a woman named,
I'm probably gonna say this wrong of course,
but Hildor,
Gudin,
Gudinaditor.
- Apparently she used to collaborate with Johan,
Johan's in a lot.
Like they worked on the same scores together.
She was basically his celloist.
And she's also done stuff with throbbing gristle,
moom,
like her resume was impressive.
'Cause I'd never heard of her up until this show.
It made me wanna like look into her
and then like I'm going through like her Wikipedia page
and all this.
I'm like, holy shit.
Like all the scores that were like my favorite by Johan,
she had a hand in like Scario.
She rolled with the sequel on her own
and she was like,
she's gonna be doing the new Joker movie.
- Joaquin Phoenix.
- Yeah.
- Thank you.
- So interesting resume of like dreary stuff.
And she was talking about how for this show,
she wanted to go to a power plant.
So she actually got permission to go to the location
where they were gonna film,
which was an abandoned nuclear plant ahead of time
and just get into the vibe of it.
And she said she was trying to locate the character
of this plant.
And so she was doing like field recordings
and like recording acoustics.
Like she'd play cello there and record that
or she'd do field recordings of the sound of like
one thing she described was a door.
They just recorded this door for hours
and like going through to recordings
like every once in a while should hear like a melody
come out of it.
It would just be like from the stuff like
through the other side and things like that.
Just like resonating through the door.
And that was one of the things that she used to drive
like a lot of the songs in the soundtrack was like
the snippets that she pulled from this door.
- That's awesome.
- It was just like industrial mentality.
You know what I mean?
Like I was like I like that a lot.
And she's just like seemed super animated
and excited to talk about sound.
You know like the score was just super,
I don't wanna say melodic or even just atmospheric
but just like it was like a cloud of doom
that like never went away from throughout the entire series.
- So in your research as you find out
was this like a heavily processed recording
for playing cello or was that mostly natural?
- I think a lot of it is processed like
'cause she was talking about her associate I guess
who does a lot of the recording and processing for her.
I guess it was like heavily processed
and so were the field recordings.
You know what I mean?
To the point where a lot of it you can't even tell
if it's a cello or a sound of a goddamn
pump room door.
You know what I mean?
It's just like these strange industrial abstract sounds
and just really help convey the like dread.
- Yeah.
- You know throughout the entire series.
- Yeah, I've been wanting to watch that
but have been kind of on the fence.
But I love like the topic of radiation and radioactivity
and accidents like that is something I really dig.
So it's on the playlist for sure.
- Like I've seen every documentary that I could find
on Chernobyl after Fukushima hit.
'Cause it like really piqued my interest in this shit.
Yeah.
Especially after I learned that Fukushima
was essentially the same type of situation.
And it was really bizarre because I noticed after watching
and even reading things that there was a lot of inconsistencies
and not a single documentary all had like the same information.
It was like a piece here, a piece there
and you kind of had to like put it all together.
And then like this series though did a great job
of like collecting all of that
and making like one cohesive thing.
So I was kind of impressed by that.
But I liked it.
Nice.
Great sound.
- Well, I saw on your list, I cried.
- My list.
- You hate you don't like your list?
- I don't.
- What don't you like about it?
It's your list, you could have changed it.
- Yeah, bad list.
Just been a shit summer so far.
I haven't had a chance to really dive into
a lot of the stuff that I've gotten recently.
- I've been digging the new Bug brand, DRM2,
which I picked up.
- Oh yeah.
- So yeah, Bug brand DRM2.
I've been trying to get one of those since they came out
like last summer or like late fall.
You know with Bug brand, he kind of doesn't want off
and he won't announce or generally email people
and he'll just like put it in the store
just to be fair to everybody.
So you gotta kind of like check it or write a script
to check the site, do something like that.
Which I didn't do, I just checked it one day.
And I saw, one was up there.
I was like, holy shit, mom's up there.
I saw it's like pretty damn pricey.
I couldn't just buy it outright really.
So I took my DRM1X, like flipped it on Muff's
in like 20 minutes to the guy who puts on movement,
the Paxahau guy.
Like he's the guy who bought it of all people.
Just thought that was interesting.
But managed to make the purchase
and then next week had the DRM2.
Main difference with the DRM2 between the DRM1.
- Wait, wait.
- Kind of erupt.
- I'm gonna interrupt on behalf of the listeners.
Can you explain both of those?
- That's a good thing.
So the Bug brand DRM stands for drum synth basically.
So his intention is to be an analog drum synth.
And he claims it's one of the most full featured
analog drum synths ever.
And I would kind of agree with that to an extent.
It's got a lot of CVIO.
It's got some onboard modules called like a bend envelope.
Kind of like imagine a 909 style, turn the pitch up
and it gets a little swackier kind of like
exponential curve you can add to things.
But it's got a all banana jack patch points on it too.
So it's like a desktop module like Bug brand makes.
He makes modules but also like these desktop things.
They're still basically a module.
The main difference is that this one is truly subtractive.
So the DRM1 I originally had with an expander
it was actually a drum synth plus a filter
that was also self oscillating
that would make like noise sounds and shit like that.
And this one is different.
It's actually oscillator into the filter.
So it's more of a true synthesizer
with only decay envelopes though.
So it's kind of limiting in that you don't get attack
and it's really like snappy.
Like really great drum sounds.
- It has to be snappy.
- Yeah.
The cool thing is you could override all that.
Amplifier and filter with external envelope.
So I've been running two Zadar envelopes into it
and it's like oh man.
I've been down the rabbit hole.
Like I set up this a kind of sold a bunch of Euro stuff
and set up a really small lunch box with just modulators
all going into the DRM and I'll take a MIDI
from my MIDI box sequencer.
And it's been like holy shit.
And I don't know that guy is like Tom Bugs,
magic filter creator.
It's the coolest filter I've ever heard.
It sounds like true electricity kind of very different
than what I'm used to hearing from my Euro system.
So I don't know, I've been digging it.
I've been using it more as like a bass and lead synth
than drums even made a whole rack of samples from it
that I've been using.
But man, I'm super satisfied with that.
I like the sound a lot more than the original one.
It was funny cause I think he almost got upset at me
for selling the original one.
He's like, but that's so rare.
They're so hard to get.
- I work so hard.
- Yeah, I don't really care dude.
I sold it for pretty much what I paid for it actually.
That's why it went so quickly.
But people had similar words when I was sold the Weevil.
- Yeah.
- Including him.
Yeah, he was kind of like,
"Eh."
I was just like, "It's not that I don't like it,
but it's like, I'm expanding my modular.
I don't really need the Weevil."
- Also the DRM2 was like $820 all said and done
from like the pound to dollar conversion
and the shipping which is like 60 bucks from the UK generally.
So it's like, I can't just like, something's got to give here.
So luckily flipped that and it was only like an extra hundred bucks
on top and it's super, super happy with it.
It's been very inspiring instrument.
Digging it.
Especially with some external envelopes
and I love that he added that.
So it's like a full synth.
Like the only thing that's missing is like pulse width
and like a sine wave.
It's like sawtooth to square and you can kind of change.
There's a knob to kind of change through that shape
whereas the other one had just like square out, saw out,
whatever that you could patch.
So there are less patch points in some sense
but more flexibility.
But the CV over the filter is just like,
I just, it's one of those things where I sit there
and I kind of scream when I use it.
Where it's like, "Ah, fuck."
You know, I haven't like had that in a minute.
- How do you get the CV in there?
'Cause it's like old banana, right?
- It's old banana.
So I got this little converter box
which is eighth inch and quarter inch
of banana jacks that I got from like perfect circuit
or something years ago.
So there's a ground jack in the back
that's banana that you connect to the ground
on the converter box and then it's just perfect.
It works great.
So I've got this little station where it's those modulators,
the bug brand and then the mini-log XD is above it
and the two CV outs are going in there.
So it's like this little kind of small matrix of CV
going across these three instruments basically
and it's like, it's kicking ass right now.
- I was gonna ask, is that a candidate for a live setup?
- Good question.
I don't know.
It could be 'cause it's so simple
and it's one of those things where you can be like,
"All right, yeah, I know what I'm gonna get from this.
"It's not very confusing or deep."
So it could be for sure.
And it's actually super tempting and I'm not gonna do it
but there's the modular, bug brand modular
single frame is up there right now.
Those are equally rare as the DRM and like,
but it's like 1600 bucks.
But it's a full featured dual of everything
in three oscillator system.
It's actually pretty good for 1600 bucks
in the sound quality, but right.
I think the DRM too is kind of enough for my purposes.
I'm super glad I took the leap 'cause that day
I was like, "Hey, you're just being ridiculous."
But especially over like TR8S
which I think I might flip that again
and like shit, that's kind of boring.
You can spice it up with the EQ pretty well.
- I was actually thinking about rebounding.
(laughing)
- You know what's going for a high price right now?
So I was like, having a moment and I was like,
"I want the little baby 909, the TR09."
Those are like 700 bucks new now
'cause they're discontinued and even the used ones
are like 100 bucks. - How are they discontinued
already?
- Like they just came out. - That's like 808s.
- Not, but the 909 one is.
- Why? - I don't know.
- The fuck?
- But it's like driving the price up like fucking mad.
- I remember that being unveiled at knobcon.
- Yeah, just like two years ago?
- Three years ago, three years ago.
- Maybe three?
How the fuck do you discontinue something
that was obviously widely successful?
- They did that with all the first boutique shit.
- Yeah, yeah, that's stupid.
- But the 808 still, you can buy.
'Cause I was gonna go to pianos and stuff.
I would go there and lunch sometimes
just because I'm like,
"They're just gonna go fuck with some stuff.
I know all the stuff, whatever."
They had the 808 there and they had the TR09 sign
for like list price.
I'm like, "Oh, you got it.
I got discontinued now."
All right, you got sign up, but cool, cool, cool.
And I went checking on eBay and Reverb
and it was just like 600 bucks, 700 bucks for a new one.
- Fuck, that's a close to it and I don't know
and used to cost.
- Really?
- So you wanna get into the convention of knobs?
- I mean, yeah, we paid the entry fee.
We're gonna get into it.
- So, I don't remember if it was last year or the year before,
but remember we showed up
and they didn't have my registration info.
And then like after having three very patient
and nice old ladies digging through
all this stacks of paperwork
determined that, "Oh, I've simply forgot to register.
I don't know how or why."
I almost did the same thing this year.
I registered today because I realized,
"Oh, I forgot."
Because the day that you said, "Hey, you know,
hotel's booked, register, you know, get it cheap."
And I was like, "Yeah, I'll do that."
And I was like, "Oh, but first I need to make sure
I can take off that Friday."
So I put in the PTO request and it got approved
like that day, but I totally forgot.
Like I thought, "Yeah, I already registered."
And I didn't.
So I double checked today.
I was like, "You know what?
I'm gonna look in my email and look for the receipt."
And sure enough, there's no fucking receipt.
I was like, "I didn't register, so I did it real quick,
so I'm good to go now."
- That would have been amazing if you went into the same thing.
- I'd have felt like such a fucking jackass.
- And those poor women are like, "Oh, it's this guy."
- "Is this moron again trying to get in for free?"
- All right, great.
- Tell us that they forgot the registration.
- We know you're a 10-gug wigler,
but you can't get in for free.
(laughing)
But it should be all good now.
We'll see.
- So I'd like that the guest is
chounding the inventor of FM.
No, and I like that we don't have to go to the banquet at all
to see him give a talk about FM synthesis
so like advanced techniques,
which I think will be like super interesting.
It would be interesting to see this year.
Because in some ways I think
your Iraq has peaked.
We talked about this last year.
I wonder if it will.
It's shit collapsing now.
I know it's been much harder to sell stuff.
I don't know if that's a good indicator.
There's still just volumes of new stuff coming out,
but is it like it used to be?
I don't know.
- I'm curious. - For saturation.
- Oh, very oversaturated.
- Whenever we talked about this in the past too,
of like the idea of a lot of the simple stuff,
there's a thousand variations of, right?
I still think there's a lot of room for novelty
and I think there are still novel stuff coming out.
I just think the sort of entry point
if you wanna make a mark is higher.
I'll make a risky statement.
I think, I don't even know.
I was thinking about this before the show.
I don't know if your Iraq is a good platform
for analog audio synthesis.
I think it is excellent platform
for digital audio synthesis and everything around that.
And I think that's what it's kind of converging on.
- Dude, I kind of came to that own conclusion
for myself a few years back.
And like when I was building shit,
I think you guys probably noticed.
I sold pretty much everything except
for a few filters that were analog.
I wanted to keep everything in there digital.
'Cause I realized that was kind of
the strong point of modular.
Like you can get cheap analog desktop synths
and things like that.
There are diamond dozen at this point,
but when it comes to modular, it's expensive
and it offers some really unique shit
in the world of digital stuff.
So that's kind of where I've been keeping my rig
between the rolling stuff and the corg stuff
and the oratoria stuff.
- You can get all your analog needs covered
and you don't need to pay the exorbitant prices
of your own rack.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, at least that's what I've come to notice.
- No, but people are still cranking out stuff like,
oh, this is an analog for us.
I was like, I don't care.
Like I'm not paying $400 for another basic one oscillator
module 'cause it's analog.
Don't give a shit.
- Right.
- How many complex analog oscillators can you actually make
at the end of the day?
Like there's only so much.
I mean, people come up with shit, but.
- I mean, that's my list of things that I want to check out
at knob con though, is that mind phaser?
- A lot of the stuff I want to check out
is from the Duschall Music Electronics.
He's got a whole slew of stuff that hopefully
will be at knob con, all digital.
You know, he's got the, he's hinting at the granular thing
that he's been working on.
- I saw that.
- Quite a while, the new, what's the name of the filter?
- Not Kermit.
- Kermit's the Bionic Blaster.
- Thank you.
Bionic Blaster, he's got the new version of that.
It's a dual digital filter and the demo so far
sound pretty cool.
But I want to get some hands on time with it.
The Andor Jr.
- Is that the single Andor?
- Yeah.
- 'Cause he's had a prototype of that for a while.
And like you'll see it like whenever he does talks
and stuff like that.
I love the double Andor or Andragus is how he calls it.
Like whenever he's talking about it, he calls it Andre.
- Does he?
- Yeah, that's the technical, but I would still call it
the Andor.
- I call it the Andor too.
- Yeah.
- I just visualize final flight every time I read.
- Uh huh.
- The idea of having like the single version of that
and fixing the bugs and all the problems in that first one.
I got rid of my double Andor.
I can see getting the single one in a heartbeat.
- Yeah.
- I kind of miss it.
I mean the Zadar replaced it with a crazy digital envelope
shapes.
I still miss just that grit.
- Yeah, so.
- Yeah.
- And I still wanna get more hands on time
with the new Hertz donut.
The Mark III.
And maybe the piston hot number.
- Did you get, you had the piston for a little?
- I had the Mark IIs, yeah.
- Oh the Mark II, that's right.
- But yeah, it's like almost all digital, you know.
At least on my list.
That wasn't intentional really.
It's just stuff that caught my attention.
- I would say I think it's a good platform
for analog video synthesis because that is not,
there's no equivalent.
You can't get like analog video shit.
So I think it's cool that that market's been able to expand
like through the Euro rack, like just structure.
- Yeah, and being able to take advantage
of all of the stuff you already have
in your rack for audio things.
Not having to re-buy that or buy something
that is duplicating that functionality.
- On a similar note to that, I don't know
if you guys noticed, but I did not see LZX on the list.
- Yeah, I saw that.
Like I really wanna check out,
they just released the Fortress module.
- Yeah, I wanna see that too.
- I wanna see that in action.
- Also open for another panel also.
You know, like hearing them talk about stuff.
- Oh fuck it, that was so interesting.
- That was our highlight, yeah, last year.
But that was like the beginners course.
This hoping would have had like a more advanced panel
this year or something, but yeah,
I didn't see their name anywhere.
So might not be there, yeah.
- I would say through the beginners course again,
'cause I have a little more context now,
or something forgotten a lot of it,
but I know I'm like, actually like,
maybe I'll get a video like,
I don't wanna dip my toes in a little further.
Now I understand we were talking about the staircase
like a week ago, and now I'm like,
no, I painfully know like why I want that now.
- When I first started getting into it,
it kept coming up as like,
like if you've already got a UREX system,
this is the thing you wanna get,
like this individual cortex.
And I read it and I'm just like,
I don't know why I need this,
but then fucking around with it for like a year or so now,
like it makes perfect sense to me.
It's in every video patch I do,
like it's just like, it's super intuitive.
And it's, I mean,
I know we're gonna talk about structure at some point,
but that in of itself is also just fucking mind blowing.
And then I was also taking the two outputs,
putting them into the A and B in the Fluxus duo.
- Oh yeah, that post you, that looked delicious.
- Yeah. - Which is kind of like
vibrating.
- So jealous.
You know there was a time when you were the only person
who had UREX video shit.
We all had to come over here.
(laughing)
- That's true.
- And we said, oh man, that looks awesome.
And you were like, oh, just a video shit.
Like you weren't even watching it anymore.
- And with the UREX audio back in the days
of the Freakin' Steiner and all that other shit,
which seems like a lifetime ago now.
- Wouldn't mind having a Freakin' Steiner again, honestly.
- Yeah.
- It's good filter.
- Started it all for me at least.
- Yeah, it's really good.
- It's a terrarium.
- It was the AFG.
- Yeah, AFG.
- Yeah, I bought them both at the same time.
I had a little doffer, you know,
a economic case thing that I got.
The bare bones and I got the Freakin' Steiner
and the AFG together.
Like I didn't even have like a VCA or anything yet.
I didn't even care, you know what I mean?
I was just patching that to the filter
and I was like, this is some God tier sounding stuff.
(laughing)
- Yeah, 'cause remember that?
The first Intel-Jell module was actually the expander
for the Balkan module later.
That was the first shit that Intel-Jell ever did before.
I had that shit on pre-order too.
I was very stoked for that one.
Crazy to think about how far Intel-Jell has come from that,
dude. - Yeah.
- Yeah.
Those palette cases look pretty dope.
They're tiny, but you know, it's a nice little setup.
- Still have lids though.
- They don't, that's a big, like, I read that today.
I was like, oh, maybe I'll, you know,
oh, no, they don't have fuckin' lids, fuck that.
How do they not think about it?
They could sell people another thing, you know?
- Yeah. - Like put a lid on it.
- Yeah, maybe.
- Maybe they're trying to upsell you
to the big one that has a lid.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- It's portability as you're saying.
It'd be nice to see them in the op-con.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Big-ass rig of Intel-Jell stuff.
There wasn't a whole lot of modular manufacturers
on the list to be on it.
There was a lot of the same, like, other people, you know,
Yamaha, Electron, all that shit.
And I'm like, okay, that's cool.
Oh, and real fake knobs.
Yeah, I know we're all excited for that again, right?
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- How could you forget that?
That was the number one thing?
Yeah, no.
- It's ridiculous.
- What a waste of fucking space.
So, there seems to be some gimmicky stuff like that on there.
Like, like utility stuff.
And I'm like, okay, that's cool,
but that's not something I need to see at a convention.
To get a feel for it, you know what I mean?
Like, I know what the fuck a fake knob is, thanks.
But yeah, I'd like to see more of the big name,
modular people on there,
but there just doesn't seem to be on.
I saw that, I might be saying it wrong, but Neo, NIO.
- I don't know how you say that.
- Me either.
- I would miss Neo.
- But they're on the list again.
They were last year, but they had no show.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Which was a bummer,
'cause I wanted to check out the analog core four.
- I wanna hear that too.
- If it's there, I'll be spending some time with it for sure.
- I don't hear Barringer is gonna be there.
- Yeah, after talking about the little TR-909,
it does beg the question of when they're gonna do
the Barringer 909.
- It's supposed to be soon.
- It's supposed to be.
The 808's actually shipping now.
- It shipped that on 808 day on August 8th.
It's in route to retailers.
Did either of you pre-order one or anything?
- I wanna play with one at KnobCon
before I spend any money on it,
but I was a little disappointed,
'cause the price was rumored up until this point to be $2.99.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Now they're saying $3.49.
- That's not too bad.
- It's not too bad, but it takes it over to that $300 mark,
which was making it stand out more in my mind,
'cause that's undercutting all the competition.
You know what I mean?
I don't even think you can get a drum-brute impact
for under 300, can you?
- Yeah, we don't think so.
- I mean, my main thing is,
808 is not something I lost after.
To me, you start with a 909,
and then you put it through distortion.
- I'm under the same boat,
909 is my own personal favorite,
but I do like the mix and match sounds here and there.
Whenever I had the TR8 or the TR8,
I usually had a mix there of 909 808 shit.
You know what I mean?
But for under 300 bucks with what you're getting,
- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I would pick one up just for the fuck of it.
You know, if nothing else,
like it's got some good features.
I jotted down 64-step sequencer right off the bat.
You got individual output for each drum voice.
You got internal effects.
You have fucking parameter locking.
- I didn't know that.
- So how does that work?
Is there a screen for it,
or like how do you know something as well?
- There's a little,
'cause I think it's a two-line LCD
under the main shit right above the step sequencer.
At least I'm assuming it's parameter locking.
I saw on there that you can record
like the filter or some shit.
It says parameter chaining,
which I'm guessing is parameter locking.
They probably just can't say parameter locking,
'cause like you're chaining the movement.
- Also filter, obviously.
- Yeah, high pass and low pass, yeah.
Variable mode.
- That's a lot of shit.
- Right.
- Yeah.
- It's kind of hard to scoff at, you know?
- I love my 808.
But it's all about processing the individual outs
with effects.
- Yeah, sure.
- I think that's a great,
and it helps you integrate,
if you already have a modular,
you know, like if you have 350 bucks a burn,
are you going to buy one fucking drum module
that is a 808 emulation with no CV ability?
Or are you gonna buy a whole fucking machine
at this point with, you know, all those features?
- Cost is one of them,
been the big reason why I've not gone down the path
of making a modular drum machine.
- Yeah, it's not--
- Don't go down, yeah.
- It's so fucking--
- Take it for some reason.
- Fuckin' try it.
Multiple times.
Many different iterations.
- Yeah, I would not,
much rather get something special with the individual outs,
'cause the little critique ones didn't, did it?
- No, they have a single eight inch stereo out,
which is one of the main downsides of these things.
- It's turned me, dude.
It's, you know what I mean?
Last year when we were there, Barringer was there.
I didn't even stop the look at the booth.
You know, like--
- Remember, they were late.
- Oh yeah, I mean, they were jammin' on our way
out the door, you know what I mean?
And I was just like, I stuck my nose up at it.
I said fuck, Barringer, I didn't care,
but here we are a year later,
and they've kind of wooed me a little bit.
I somehow slipped under our radar,
but I was looking at it recently.
Maybe you guys noticed it,
but we just never talked about it before,
but this was news to me.
M.F.V. just released the Tans Bar Mark II,
which looks almost like a mock of the TR-8S.
- Oh, shit.
- Yeah, like even every drum voice has a slider.
It looks fucking great, but the problem is,
like nowhere in the United States really has them yet.
Like most M.F.V. shit, it's kind of hard to get.
I'm really hoping to see one at KnobCon,
but I doubt I will.
- Yeah, it looks awesome.
- Yeah, and it's a combination of,
I think it's eight analog voices and eight digital voices.
- Yeah, little synth voice too, it looks like.
- Yeah, and it's got a bass line in it.
I'm like, this is pretty nice.
- Yeah.
- And it's not so cheap in the world, but--
- But for what you're getting, I remember being like,
that's a reasonable price.
- Yeah.
- All M.F.V. stuff, I thought was always reasonably priced.
- It is 'cause it's built like garbage.
- It's like hot glued PCBs and shit, like.
- Speaking of drone machines though.
- Oh yeah, what's on there?
- I'm on the list.
- Uh oh.
- The take a guess.
- The TSA No Fly list?
- No, you're a Pulsar.
- Yeah.
- Oh shit.
- I got my name in the hat.
I don't know what position--
- Doesn't matter.
- I'm in, but I'm in the line.
I'm excited for that one.
I was interested in it, you know, from the start,
but the most recent demos that I've seen sold me,
and then I have the pipe now,
and I'm like, you know what?
- I like Vlad.
- I like the good work.
- He does good work.
I like the aesthetic.
I would gladly accompany my pipe with a Pulsar 23, for sure.
It looks good, looks compact.
It's only four voice, but you can do a lot with it
due to all the modulation and all the shit
that you can do with it.
- And I don't plan it on using it like a group box.
You know, I know it's not gonna cover all of my drum duties,
but it'll definitely be, I think, a very fun,
unique, percussive element, you know?
- No, are the four voices different on there?
I don't know too much about it.
Are they like similar versions of the same thing?
You know what I mean?
- I don't know.
That's a good question.
'Cause like the layout looks, like they're all the same,
so I don't know if you just have to like,
you know, configure it to sound differently
or else if it's broken into, I guess,
some sort of theme, like bass snare.
- Yeah, like a Ramona one is like the DRM, you know?
Those are like kick snare hat and all of them.
- Yeah, Ramona looks good by the way too.
I've been looking into that, the Mark III recently.
And I was like, you know what?
I didn't know that there was a version
that came with trigger inputs.
I thought it was all MIDI.
I didn't realize that like there's two different versions.
- I didn't know that.
- Me either.
And I saw the trigger input when I was like,
"Ah, that would be fun."
(laughing)
It was like, "Shit."
And I was listening to demos of it
and people were like controlling it with like the Erica drum
sequencer.
I was like, "I got one of those.
That looks fun."
But yeah, I don't know.
I'm holding on.
I don't wanna really buy any drum machines
until I get the policer.
'Cause there's no definitive date
and one that's gonna be out, but he said soon.
So I wanna make sure I'm prepared
at a moment's notice to jump on it.
- So the only thing you're missing then is the Soma synth.
- Which I've looked at.
- Yeah.
- It's cool, but I have a modular, you know what I mean?
Like I can make creepy, drony stuff with that.
Fine already.
And I'm kinda using the pipe for that currently now.
- Oh really?
- Yeah.
- Soma's kinda demo the pipe yet.
- They're not going to. - They're not going to.
- I'll talk about it.
I'll be damned if I let you watch me.
- Can he gee this shit?
- Yeah, no, not gonna happen.
Vlad's a mad scientist, dude.
Like, I've read pretty much every interview
that I've seen him do recently.
And yeah, he has really interesting shit to say.
You know what I mean?
He seems really passionate about what he's doing.
He doesn't care if it's normal or not.
You know what I mean?
I was reading, one interview he was talking about
like how he built a sampler from scratch back in the 80s.
And he was all excited about it,
only to find out that a sampler already exists.
He like had no idea that this was a thing.
You know what I mean?
Like, but he created his own version from scratch
'cause it was something that he was like,
you know, it'd be nifty if I could record
and program my own fucking sound, you know what I mean?
So yeah, he's on another level for sure.
- But yeah, the pipe dude makes--
- Dude, how can you not play this for us?
- Yeah.
- Like I get it.
- I'll record some chunks.
- Dude, come on.
- You know the show--
- If you knew the show was on another foot,
you would definitely be like,
dude, you gotta play the pipe.
- Oh yeah, but I know you wouldn't do it.
- You know damn well.
(laughing)
- But like, okay, can you at least explain what's going on
'cause there's a bunch of these knobs.
And then there's like a cryptic sort of circle.
- It's very cryptic.
It's all explained on the side,
sort of in a less cryptic way.
- Yeah.
- It's like a, so the main knob here is the algorithm knob.
There's 12 different algorithms, okay?
And then depending on which algorithm you in
changes the functionality of these two contacts up here
and each knob, well except for this one,
this is just volume, but yeah,
each of these will do different effects.
- But yeah, I mean, it's got all kinds of different algorithms.
There's only two main ones that I've been really using.
It's the distorted delay in the freezer.
- Easily.
- Yeah, it's like freezer basically.
- Yeah.
- It's kind of cool and like--
- There's one that's a radioactive sign.
How are you not even--
- I forgot when to hold that one.
It means, yeah, they're all kind of weird.
I haven't even really been looking at the graphics.
I've just been like playing it by ear,
messing with different stuff.
But yeah, the two main ones I wrote up in liking the most
'cause it's kind of what I had in mind for this was like,
to make, you know, textures and drones and such.
- Does it light up on the front?
Like there's--
- Yeah, the whole glow white.
- So these up here, do you have to touch this bar too?
- The bottom bar is just for support.
- Oh, so it's not part of like a body contact combo.
- These two buttons are a contact.
The one is like a choke.
- So you can do like interesting rhythmic stuff like that.
And then the other one changes per algorithm.
Like on the distort delay mode,
this will activate the distortion delay.
- Ooh, I just noticed, is this right handed?
- Yes, or no?
Well, yeah, 'cause you hold it with your left
and then you adjust the knobs with your right.
So yeah, big minuses from the two of us.
- Fail.
Can you get all that handed?
- I don't think so.
Maybe you can flip the panels though.
We don't exist.
- Yeah, I mean, why would you make it for left handed people?
They're wrong handed.
- You might be able to flip the panel, I don't know.
But it's not the most ergonomic thing
even for a right hander.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah, I was talking to Nick about that earlier.
Like it's heavy and it's like not very--
- It's a little heavier than thought it was gonna be.
- It's heavy and it's awkward and it's wide.
And people online were complaining that
their hands aren't big enough to comfortably hold it
for long periods.
And I read that before I owned one.
I was like, "Yeah, it's kind of like a lame complaint."
And until I got one, I'm like,
"Well, I don't really have small hands
but it's definitely awkward for me to like,
you don't want to be holding it
for really more than 20 minutes.
It's like, get hand cramps and shit."
- And you have to hold it.
It's not like something you could just put on a desk and use.
- Well, there's a hole there where you can,
I guess screw it on to a mic stand or something.
- Oh, sure.
- But that would still be kind of awkward.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- You know.
- See, it's not something I would,
I foresee myself like maybe using live
or for any extended period of time.
If I did do it live,
I would probably just use it in short bursts
into like a looper.
Not gonna be standing there holding it like a,
like a blade runner saxophone or something.
(laughs)
It comes with, well, it does come with three,
but I got all three that is available for it.
- Are they different in some way?
- Oh, yeah.
- What do they, what's the deal there?
- So this one is the default.
It's supposed to be pretty versatile,
very sensitive to like velocity and frequency.
But they also offered a low frequency one,
which is supposed to be mainly to pick up
like more base tones and vibration.
So like, and then there's the high pitch one,
which I'm not really sure what you'd be doing with that.
'Cause I mean, a voice can only get so high.
So I don't know what the point of that is
to pick up really, 'cause I think the default
is gonna cover the standard vocal range pretty well.
You know what I mean?
Whereas I can see using like the low frequency one,
if you wanna do weird shit, like not exactly,
put it to your mouth, but pick up other vibrations
or like kick drum or something.
- Yeah, you know, all kinds of weird shit, I guess,
but I got them both just 'cause they're available for it.
- I wonder if it's like someone who plays a read instrument,
maybe you can do cool stuff with it.
- I don't know.
See, I used to play a read instrument.
That's why I kind of liked this.
Like it was kind of familiar territory.
I mean, like I used to play sax for a couple of years.
And it was kind of a reminisce of that,
but there is no read and you're really not doing anything
with air, it's pretty much vibration.
It's just a contact mic in there.
So even though it's got a hole in it and stuff
and it looks like a saxophone,
you're not blowing anything into it.
It's not really about air control.
- Right, right.
So like if I picked this up and I blew into it,
what would happen?
- It would probably just sound like someone breathing
into a microphone.
- Okay, 'cause that would be my first impulse.
- Yeah.
- Like everything about its form factor screams
and it's like a throw into this thing.
- That's the thing.
Yeah, it's nothing like that.
But I feel like Vlad nailed it here,
especially with the microphone.
It's just really responsive for that type of shit.
Like I was going to remind people
we're trying other contact mics with it
and they were saying the results were kind of shitty.
- Oh, okay.
- Like yeah, I guess Vlad spent a lot of time
picking and choosing the components
to put in this default mic.
- Also, this was news to me that you played the saxophone.
- You did not?
- When was this?
- Like, held for you.
- Ooh, fourth and fifth grade, I think.
- Were you in a band?
- Yeah.
- Very nice.
Did you enjoy it?
- No.
- I wanted to play a guitar.
- Yeah, I understand.
- But I got a saxophone.
Were you good at it?
- Fuck no.
(laughing)
I hated it.
I liked the music and I wanted to learn an instrument
but you know, guitar wasn't possible
and I'm kind of glad 'cause I would have sucked at it anyways.
Like, later down the line when I tried to play
a little bit of guitar, I realized I just don't have
the dexterity in these fucking sausage fingers
to do that shit.
- I understand the band.
- Yeah.
Yeah, I used to be able to play a recorder too.
- Ooh.
- And read sheet music and sing in the choir
and all that shit.
Don't remember any of it.
(laughing)
I'm not a fucking nothing.
I used to be able to read sheet music,
played violin for years.
- Yeah, nothing.
- It's gone.
- Aww, it's crazy.
- It's so hard for me not to imagine you.
Like on this like rainy midnight street.
- Oh yeah.
- Like on the corner like.
- Just like singing the blues.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
I ended up getting the Digitome.
I'm pretty interested in those.
I don't think I'm gonna get one anytime soon
but that thing's really cool.
- It was an impulse buy.
- Yeah.
- You know, I've been keeping an eye on them.
I love FM drums and there's just like,
I don't have anything right now
aside from like my plats modules to fill that, you know?
And so I have to keep an eye on them
and I got one pretty,
had a good deal on Reverb.
It was the lowest price that I had seen
in like three months for it.
So it was like, yeah, fuck it, I grabbed it.
So far I'm digging it as a drum machine
but I really need to like put it through its spaces.
Especially now with the new firmware
that just came out like,
per track scaling and all that.
It's kind of exactly what I wanted.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You know what I mean?
Like, I don't know.
I need more time with it.
(laughing)
Just not enough time.
That's kind of why.
So I sold a bunch of Euro stuff
and some of the stuff I liked
but I kind of focused on anything
that had much depth or menu diving
'cause I didn't have much time.
I would turn on my 7U which I built up
and there were like seven OLEDs
and the thing that would turn on
and there were some times where I was just like,
this is just overwhelming right now.
I'm gonna play some drums and play a synthesizer.
And as I kind of slimmed it down,
I was like, no, you could just focus on
what you really need to use.
I don't wanna start with having to configure something
and that's what I felt it was.
It was like, oh, I'm gonna get these four things
into the specific state.
Like, I love the E3502
and I think I'm gonna flip that too
just because it's like, I know you can have presets
but I just wish it was a little easier to work with sometimes.
I mean, you flipped yours kind of shortly after Platts.
- Yeah, for the same reason.
- It's just way easier to get there faster.
- Right.
I like the fact that there was no menu diving
or interfacing, you know, the mess with on Platts
is you push a button to get into the mode you want.
You know, it just takes a little bit of muscle memory
but, you know, no menu diving and I like that a lot.
To get to pretty close to the same territory.
You know, I think the audio quality on the 352
is miles above the Platts.
- Yeah, I agree with that.
- Yeah, but it serves its purpose for me.
- He's got something new.
He's gonna show off in the knob con.
Yeah, so I'm teasing it.
Look like he was showing off a new
at mega processor on the back of a board of something.
- Okay.
- Yeah, that'll be interesting.
The ER 301 had a really cool update recently.
He actually kind of went away for a few months
and wasn't updating anything and he was like,
"Joozy, I just hold on, whatever."
And he's got like a log of like what he's gonna work on.
There's always been this switch on the front of the ER 301
called hold that has done nothing for years.
And people have been knowing that hold mode
would eventually come.
So eventually released hold mode just a couple weeks ago,
maybe a month ago or something.
Anyway, turns out it was really awesome.
It's kind of like pinning controls
and then having control that can kind of sweep
and morph through things.
So now you can take all these parameters within your 301,
go into hold mode and pin them
and then create like other change sets
and then kind of like morph through those
or like flip between them.
- It's almost like the parameter log.
- I was gonna say almost like the opposite
of a parameter log.
- Yep, exactly.
Yeah, so that's been, I haven't even played with it yet.
'Cause that's one I, I would likely never get rid
of that module but it's one I haven't played with much
'cause it's like every time you use it,
there are different changes and the core of it's kind
of the same now but it's always,
every time I turn it on, I feel like,
well there I need to go to a website
and try these five new things or something
or just use it really simply and load a sample.
But the hold mode seems cool.
Like I'm down with some parameter locking
and able to fuck shit up on there.
- Yeah.
- That's pretty interesting.
- That sounds awesome.
But on the other hand, I saw the on squid sample.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- It just came out and it looks pretty intriguing
'cause it's kind of the opposite of the 301
so it's like all on the panel basically.
- It's got a little screen but kind of a different thing.
I wasn't too blown away with the demos I've seen so far.
- Yes, all in today, before I came over
'cause I wanted to check it out.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, that kind of took away 'cause at first
I was like, "Mm, kind of cool."
- Yeah, maybe if it had like more on board effects
or something like that, like it has a dedicated button
just to downgrade the sample rate.
- Yeah, I'm like, does that really necessarily,
you could have that be something else
more important or interesting
or just disregard it all together, you know what I mean?
I don't know.
I think everyone at this point has some sort of module
in their rig that can already bit crush.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
And for eight samples, it has like three
volt proactive inputs and then three CV inputs
for everything.
- Right.
- Ooh, you're gonna have a few that are just static
just playing back and sound.
- Sure.
- That'd be cool.
Depending on what you wanna do, but I was like,
"Yeah, the thing's gotta have like eight or 16 inputs
or something, maybe, really drive it."
- Right, right.
- Or I'd wanna have it or where we would wanna take it.
- It's like, it's some weird in between
where it's like, it's not compact enough to be like,
you know, this is just my basic sample player.
And it's not like versatile enough to be like,
this is my, you know, sampling super computer.
Like it's some weird mix in between where like,
you're saying like, you don't have control over
or everything, you don't have that many options.
And that screen is so tiny.
Like you can see the waveform on it, I believe,
in some of those demos, but I'm like,
and the way the layout is too, like if you notice,
the cables kind of have to like overlap the buttons.
And you also have to like, select which track
with a button too.
So you have to like cycle through them.
Yeah, it's kind of bizarre.
I was like, this is...
- I didn't think about that.
- Yeah, that's kind of weird.
- Yeah, I don't know, 'cause I've usually kind of enjoyed
his interface.
- Yeah.
- You know, on his other modules, but I feel like
you kind of missed the mark on this one personally.
Maybe he'll offer like an expansion at some point,
which would be open it up a little bit.
That would be nicer, but...
- This is a preview of our next episode
where you're talking about how great it is.
- Yeah.
(both laughing)
- Oh, speaking of updates, I have another,
another thing to talk about related to updates.
The graphic Fisio update that I alluded to earlier.
Added drum mode.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah, it's real fucking nice.
So the new mode you get into and the FX amount input
has now been changed to a trigger or a gate.
Ultimately a single drum voice.
If you had a bunch of other modules,
you could replicate this mode,
but it's nice to have everything at once
and not have to have a bunch of envelopes coming in
and doing this.
So you have a Tacticay, but you also have,
they call FM, but it seems like it's just more pitch,
but it's not one-volt proactive.
But basically you can also then use this envelope
to change pitch over time.
And I think it's an exponential curve,
but you have all of the waveforms available to you
and you still have the morph control.
So you can still send CV to that.
You can get like solid what you would expect out
of a kick drum sounds and does that fine,
but also just weird space punching sound.
So yeah, I was wrong, I was wrong pressed with it.
And there were other bug fixes and stuff in it.
- There was something else that was added,
but it was not as exciting as this new mode.
- They fixed the fine tune or something.
- Oh, that was it.
Thank you, that is exactly it.
So it was just one knob for pitch
and it was relatively coarse.
But as you were going through,
if you went over a note,
it would sort of pop up and say,
you're now an F, go down.
And as you were correlating between them.
So this now you can go, okay, I kind of got near
this note that I want.
You hit the left encoder or the right encoder,
pops up and now you can shift
how close you want to get to that note
that you had in the hit, okay?
And now that's the value of it.
So it's a way to tune things quickly on the fly.
I mean, you still have to dial that in.
- I only have one oscillator right now.
Just the organ, that's it.
- Really?
- Yeah, well I still have the 350 too.
- Wait, did you get rid of the monsoon too?
- No, kept the monsoon.
- Okay. - Yep.
'Cause I've, that's an effects processor.
They call it a texture synthesizer, but no.
No one uses it as it's intended.
(laughs)
No one.
- You got a monsoon's.
Digging it?
- Oh, I fucking love it.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- 'Cause I played with the clouds before.
So this is very exciting to have that.
And then also the parasites from where
and fucking around all of that different shit.
I was getting good sounds in weird fucked up noise sounds,
but also just using it a little bit
just beefs up something that's otherwise.
- Yeah, it's also a good way to take a basic mono signal
and add some stereo depth to some weird panning effects.
- Speaking of which though,
I think I need some kind of stereo mixer
for my module and so I was looking--
- He started me down that path.
- I know I could have a long time ago with the ZDSP,
but that was like, oh no, I'm getting a good stuff
out of just the mono.
This I'm like, oh shit, I think I'm missing.
Like when I put it into the, directly into this,
the lesson right now, I'm like, this sounds fucking great.
And then going back down to mono,
I'm like, it still sounds good, but.
- Right.
- Yep, I came to the same conclusion.
Now most of my rig is stereo.
I have a multitude of stereo mixers in there
and stereo effects.
I highly recommend the Erika Drum Stereo Mixer.
- Oh, okay, 'cause I was looking at that.
- Very nice.
And the new Make Noise one.
- X, I forget what it's called.
- X-Pan.
- X-Pan, that's it, yeah.
- I saw that one seem more like more than just a mixer.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- I mean like there's a lot of control over panning
and things like that.
- Yeah, crossfading I think.
But yeah, if you're just looking for something basic
and cheap and clean, I highly recommend the Erika one.
Like I'm enjoying it more than the mix ups
from IntelliJil.
I have three of those in there currently
and they're noisy as shit.
And you only have control over one stereo signal.
The other one comes in unintentuated, just full blast.
- Oh, that's a weird choice.
- Yeah, it's weird.
There's two mono inputs,
but you have volume attenuation control over
with the two knobs, first two knobs.
And then knob three controls your first stereo input
and then your second stereo input just is, you know,
it is what it is.
Like you have to attenuate it before it goes in.
Which is stupid because if you're attenuating everything else,
you know what I mean?
And to a nice quiet level and then you have this full blast
signal coming in, just gonna drown out everything else
unless you pre attenuate it.
So you need like a stereo mixer to go into your stereo mixer.
- That, wow.
- Yeah, I don't like it at all.
It annoys me and I've been considering just selling my mix ups
and getting another Erika because,
and also just the noise.
Like I noticed they're not the cleanest mixers.
There's some weird noise that comes through through them
that I don't get on the Erika's.
So just my two cents.
Speaking of stereo signal paths,
WMD just released the module that I've been looking for
for years now, a dual stereo cross-fader.
So that, for example, you can take your ZDSP
and your monsoon and have the same signal processed
in different ways by both.
And then CV, the cross-fade between them, things like that.
- How was that taken until now?
- I don't know.
I know that like since episode one,
I've been talking about like,
that's the type of module I've been looking for, you know?
And I've been looking for one longer than we've been doing this.
And finally, yeah, someone has made one.
I don't know why it took so long.
- When you start talking about that,
I thought you were talking about the autodine.
- That's mono.
- It is mono, but when you first started about like
a module you were excited for.
And if it was-- - I was going to be
until I saw it was mono.
- Oh, mono.
- That pissed me off.
I was like, what the hell?
- I have their, what is it, the MSCL?
- Yeah, the MSCL.
- Yeah, which is cool, but I was excited about this one too,
'cause it seemed like it's kind of like a hands-off approach.
It just slams the shit out of it.
And I was like, cool.
You know, I could use one or two of those.
And then I looked at it and it's mono only.
I'm like, why would you do that?
- Yeah.
- Like, you already offer like compact, you know,
stereo compressors.
I feel like they should continue down that path.
But axis, WMD axis spelled A-X, Y-S, dual stereo crop.
- Y-S, dual stereo crossfader.
You're controlling four different stereo signals
in a six HP module.
- That's nuts.
- And it has LEDs to show, you know, signal for all of them.
It's pretty slick.
- Yeah, that's nice.
- Like, it kind of exceeds my expectations
from what I wanted from a stereo crossfader.
- Yeah.
- It's compact, it's cheap.
- So that's meters for each, the left and right
for both channels.
And then what are the two LEDs between them?
Is that just the crossfader?
- Yeah, that's, is signified.
Left and right patch.
- Got it, got it.
- Paying, yeah.
- And yeah, coming soon.
- It's smart.
- I'm excited about it.
- It's weird to be excited about something so basic.
- Yeah.
- I just, there's been so many patches lately
where I'm like, I could really benefit
from something like this.
- Yeah.
- And just didn't exist really.
I mean, you could achieve it, you know, using a plethora
of other modules, most of which I don't currently own.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- But something like, do I really want to take up
so much space to achieve something like that?
You know what I mean?
Not really.
But here we are in a six HP package.
Thumbs up to WMD.
Also speaking of stereo.
A new, well, I don't wanna say a new ZDSP.
But a, a,
Ger on Muffwickler recently hinted
to a new module.
- Mm-hmm.
- It's a compact,
reverb module.
- Oh.
- That, do you think it's just like the spin
with Valhalla, hard-coded on it?
- Pretty much.
I think that's what it's gonna be.
He, he didn't really give a whole lot of info about it,
but he said it's gonna be released in late summer.
It's gonna be a companion module set up similar
to his current Echos module.
- Yeah.
- Which was like the, the compact like delay.
- It's, the only thing is that kind of
didn't blow me away about his description is that
it's mono in only stereo out.
I'm like, why would, why would you do that?
- I had to do that.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
Like, that's one of the,
fueling parts of the ZDSP is that it was stereo in
from the start, you know what I mean?
- Well, okay.
I, all right.
The way that I used to do things,
I routinely just mapped the left and the right
with a, with a stack cable.
- Sure.
- I'm the same.
- I think a lot of them.
- You do what you gotta do, you know.
- Right.
Nine times out of 10, that's how I would patch this up.
Maybe they're thinking this is how people use it typically,
you know, you're just gonna take this in,
you're just gonna malt it over to the right.
- Yeah.
- Let's just not bother.
I'm playing devil's advocate of them going,
this is how most people use ZDSP,
let's just not bother putting it in a second, Jack.
- He says these cards will have SD cards on the back
to update the code.
It's gonna have a 70s algorithm
and I guess an 80s algorithm than a 90s algorithm.
- No, that's absolutely Valhalla then.
- Yeah.
- 'Cause he's got that kind of,
he said he'll just work with Tiptop.
Yeah, I forget there was another thread
where people were trying to get him to ER 301.
- That was it, yeah.
And like even when he came on,
he was like, "Gurt treated me well,
"I'm going to only work with them."
Still got that, there was like, still pushback.
- Yeah, I would love a Valhalla, you know,
reverb it back.
- 'Cause the reverb that's in there,
he used free verb and it kind of sucks, you know.
It does kind of the trick, but it's terrible.
(laughing)
- But it's just open source.
I would have done the same thing if I was saying like,
"Yeah, I'm not coding that, here you go."
Use reverb module.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, the halls is still my favorite reverb for sure.
- I've been getting more mileage out of the monsoon,
you know, herb and not herb verb.
- These are all a verb.
- All verb, yeah.
- Yeah, that's good.
- Yeah, it's good, surprisingly.
Like I kind of disregarded it for the longest time
'cause I always had halls and I had herb,
herb and everything else, so it kind of felt it away side.
But I mean, not that I have three versions of clouds in there.
I mean, I've been messing with the reverb more.
I recently sold my second ZDSP too,
'cause like, originally my plan was to do like,
dual halls setup, but, and I did for a little while.
- Are you just gonna like, like strum a guitar once
and then like two hours later come back?
- I liked having the ability to process two different things.
- Oh, gosh.
- With two different, you know, algorithms going.
Not necessarily running through each other
for like extra holiness, no.
- Sorry, that's what I was in front.
- Yeah.
- What's thinking?
- No, 'cause like sometimes I'd like to have like a short,
dark verb, you know what I mean,
platy type thing going and then something that's like
a bit brighter and longer for other elements in a patch,
you know what I mean?
- Oh yeah, don't.
- But yeah, I sold my second ZDSP and now I'm just kind of
making do with the monsoons verb along with my
one remaining ZDSP running halls.
And Maryana Trench, that's a pretty good card.
- I haven't gotten that one.
- I've been getting a homologized.
- I've been pissing a lot of money on video shit.
- Yeah.
- So I just didn't know necessarily when I would use
that over halls.
- Yeah, it's definitely not a halls replacement
but it can do some unique stuff.
It has a life of its own kind of like how halls does, you know
and it just has a very organic feel to it.
You can get some interesting weird feedbacky, you know,
strange tones out of it.
In fact, that was running Trench into halls at one point
and that was pretty cool.
- Mm-hmm.
- So you're running your reverb into a reverb?
- Yeah, I don't know.
Like, I don't, it's weird to consider the Trench card
like a reverb because I wasn't using it as such.
It was more like a, I guess a manger
wouldn't be the proper word either
but it just helps to transform sound
into like strange harmonic content
and it utilizes CV really nicely.
Like the shit that you can hit on there
and you can just start morphing things
into strange, stranger things.
I don't know.
- Yeah, that's cool 'cause actually that would be one thing
that I've always said about like ZDSPs.
Like I don't end up using a lot of CV.
- Right, either have I up until this card.
I think it kind of begs for it.
- Yeah, I got that H9, Eventide H9 pedal module
that like won a 10 thing.
That was the most cramped module I've ever seen.
I almost like laughed when I took it out
and like tried to turn one of the knobs.
It was like, holy shit, this looked so much better on paper.
Yeah, I had that in the rack for like five minutes
and that shit was on reverb.
- Oh yeah.
- I didn't even know you got one.
- Yeah, yeah, I just got it.
I was like, kind of drunk maybe when I bought it.
Yeah, got it.
I was like, fuck, this is super tiny
and it also had like the green at the bottom.
It was like super bright blue and I was just--
- Oh, your favorite.
- Yeah, fucking blue LEDs.
- I'm not putting tape on this thing already.
And also the idea of having that much CV control
was like, I just don't, I don't think this is necessary
for a lot of effects, you know?
And plus the green.
- Use the expression pedal input
if I really need like a CV control or something.
- Yeah, I don't know if I have any interest
in his smaller reverb, you know?
Even if it is running like halls, like algorithms,
I don't know.
'Cause I can't imagine it would be cheap.
- The only thing I would be interested in is having,
like if it is just halls, taking that out,
making it a dedicated halls machine,
which my ZDSB unfortunately is a lot of the time,
honestly I can see myself getting that.
- Yeah, it all depends on the price for me, I think.
I haven't enjoyed a tip-top module in a long time,
honestly, I feel like most of the stuff that he's put out,
I give a shot and then I'm just kinda like,
"Yeah."
Like the last thing that I was kind of dug
was the wave folder, the tip-top fold.
'Cause it had some interesting tricks, you know what I mean?
It had like the sub-octave outs and stuff.
You know, that was a cool trick,
and it was a really nice module
for like feedback patching and stuff,
but at the end of the day, it's not small, you know,
and it's kind of a one trick, pony,
and the fucking new interfaces on everything.
It's just so ugly, like, it is just like,
- It's terrible.
- It's like I don't wanna even look at it,
let alone use it, I'm just like, oh.
- And all of them are bigger than they should be,
even that like, that oscillator is just like,
there's now two HP oscillator.
- Right.
- The 3000 is just like, this monster.
Like everything just seems like it's just like,
very rudely sitting on a subway,
putting its elbows out and like--
- Man-sprit.
(laughing)
I mean, that's everyone's complaint about the ZDSP too,
is its size, you know?
It's like, it's never really bothered me, 'cause I don't know,
I feel like the panel is well utilized for what it can do.
- Yeah, I can't.
- You know what I mean?
Like maybe you could shave some HP off of it,
but I don't know for the most part,
I think it's a nice size, but,
I mean, hell, I had room for two of them.
(engine revving)
- Speaking of, did you tack what's up with that?
Do you have to ship it?
- Yeah, so this is a,
I don't know, did I talk about my problems with this
in the past with--
- I think briefly, I mean,
I think there's at least a five minutes section
in every episode where we complain about
electrons, some agree.
(laughing)
- So one of them was probably me explaining the problems
I was having with it, just not turning on.
And there's some back and forth with the support,
and you know, they're like, it's a capacitor,
and if you do certain things,
it takes a long time to empty.
So you guys sit down and wait,
and they were talking only a bit of like minutes,
but it was taking like hours
for mine to turn back on.
And then just out of the blue,
it started working fine.
And I even was like, okay, I guess that was it.
It's working fine again, thanks.
Three months went by, and I used to, you know,
most days, like, it's a rare day that I don't turn it on
and do something with it.
And it worked when we went down to the beach,
had no problems down there.
But a week after that, I come back and gonna turn it on,
and it doesn't come back on.
So I'm like, okay, shit.
And so I turn it off due to the normal thing.
Hours later, it's still not fucking turning on.
And now I'm like, oh shit, I haven't done,
I haven't since I've done this in like a month.
I don't wanna lose that fucking work,
at least turn back on so I can back this up.
- You said it.
- I did, I said it.
- You said the name.
- The titular name.
(laughing)
- I can take it.
So, so finally, it wasn't until the next fucking day
the same turn it's on.
This is not okay, so I basically hit them back up.
This happened again, didn't turn back on
until the next day.
I'm like not, like, I basically don't trust this anymore.
I can't use this, I can't show up and go,
oh, hey, drum machine didn't turn on.
I'm just gonna take these drink tickets and go.
Like, I need to hit the turn on.
- And tell your friends.
- Back next time, maybe my shit'll work.
- And to their credit, they came back and he's like,
yeah, this just sounds like this.
Yeah, just send it back.
There's something weird going on with their website.
Basically, he's like, so we have your,
for your email address, the registration of the serial number
for the digit tech, but there's no address.
So I log into the website, all I see is an address,
no registration for the digit tech.
I'm like, these are the quirky, this is the quirky shit
that keeps us talking about electron, dude.
- And I'm like, you know, you've got peanut butter
in my chocolate, no, you got chocolate in my peanut butter.
(laughing)
So I'm still straining this out,
even though it's the exact same email address.
But I mean, at the very least, they are like, yeah,
this isn't right, we're gonna fix it.
(upbeat music)
(dramatic music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]